Driver: XTerm
Author: Salvador E. Tropea
Status: Complete
Revision: $Revision$

1. INTRODUCTION
2. FEATURES
3. IMPORTANT DETAILS
4. CONFIGURATION VARIABLES

1. INTRODUCTION

  This driver was designed for the XTerm included in XFree86 v4.x. Previous
versions like the one included in XFree86 v3.3.6 are supported but then the
provided script must be used. I don't have access to other implementations of
XTerm if you have contact me.
  The Eterm is also supported by this driver, for details specific to Eterm
please consult the documentation for the Eterm driver.
  Use this driver when you have X Window but you need to use a remote machine
and the connection isn't fast enough to use the native X11 mode.
  This driver is enabled when the environment variable TERM indicates the
terminal is called xterm. Most Linux distributions have other terminal
emulators that also reports xterm in the TERM variable. This is a pretty bad
idea and most of these terminal emulators are much less functional than
xterm. Even when people have the idea that XTerm is a simple and limited
terminal emulator I think XTerm is one of the most complete. I personally
like the aspect of Eterm, but XTerm is far more configurable.


2. FEATURES

  The driver supports:

* Window size.
* Fonts size (set and restore).
* Palette. XTerm is quite slow on it.
* Window title set/restore.
* Most keyboard combinations when using XTerm from XFree86 v4.x, for older
versions use the provided script.
* Restore shell screen (limited, you can't nest).


3. IMPORTANT DETAILS

  In order to get the maximum of key combinations you must start XTerm using
a special script. This script defines some key combinations not supported by
XTerm, makes old XTerm versions to report keys as the new one and changes the
palette to be identical to the VGA BIOS palette (same used in Linux console
for example).
  Note this configuration is specially configured for TV applications and
isn't the best for other tasks. I recommend to use at leat two connections to
the remote machine, one for general tasks and another from an XTerm with this
configuration to run TV applications.
  One important thing about this script is that it defines the Alt+Key
combinations as Meta+Key combinations, this is really important for keyboards
without a Meta key. I personally have the left key that comes with a nasty
symbols similar to a flag as Meta key.
  The script is called XTerm.res and is located in the examples/xterm
directory.
  If you want to test this driver locally just export the DISPLAY variable
with a null content like this (bash syntax):

$ export DISPLAY=


4. CONFIGURATION VARIABLES

  For more information read the configuration documentation.
  This driver supports the following standard configuration variables:

ScreenWidth     Columns of the window.
ScreenHeight    Rows of the window.
ScreenPalette   Color palette, that's a string containing the 16 RGB values.
                "0,0,0,0,0,168,..."
FontWidth       Width of the font in pixels.
FontHeight      Height of the font in pixels.
AppCP           Application encoding.
ScrCP           Screen encoding, this should be 885901.
InpCP           Input encoding.

  Plus the special option:

UseShellScreen  If that's different than 0 the shell screen is used for output
                and not the secondary buffer. This option is mainly only
                useful when the application will run as a child of other
                application that's already using the secondary buffer. This
                can be the case of a debugger.

  Note that the font sizes are limited to a known set of sizes that
correspond to the fonts included in XFree86:

5x7, 5x8, 6x10, 6x12, 6x13, 7x13, 7x14, 8x13, 8x16, 9x15, 9x18, 10x20, 10x24

  If you specify another size the closest will be used.

